News: add draft community meeting report (#665)
OSGeo/grass-website: content/news/2026_07_20_Report_Community_Meeting_San_Michele_2026.md

---
title: "GRASS Community Meeting 2026 Report"
date: 2026-07-16T18:00:00+02:00
layout: "news"
author: Veronica Andreo, Vaclav Petras, Anna Petrasova and the GRASS Dev Team
---

The **GRASS Community Meeting 2026** was held at [Fondazione Edmund Mach](https://fmach.it/) (FEM) in San Michele all'Adige, Trentino, Italy, from July 11 to 19. The event brought together users, supporters, contributors, power users and developers from around the world for a week of focused, in-person collaboration.

<a href="/images/news/grass_community_meeting_20260715.webp">
  <img src="/images/news/grass_community_meeting_20260715.webp"
   alt="GRASS Community Meeting in San Michele all'Adige, 2026"
   title="GRASS Community Meeting in San Michele all'Adige, 2026"
   width="65%" style="float:right;padding-left:15px;padding-top:15px">
</a>

> As is tradition for these meetings, a large part of the week went into maintenance that simply doesn't happen at the same pace when the team is scattered across time zones: reviewing, testing, and merging or closing pull requests and issues, following up on stale discussions, and cleaning up long-standing rough edges across the GRASS repositories. On top of that, the group welcomed **5 new contributors**, tracked down and fixed several bugs, merged new addons, and pushed forward a number of core and infrastructure improvements, including a technology bump for the website.

Reviewer: 5 new contributors could be confused with developers, maybe say something like 5 of the participants contributed for the first time. Then below the 5 new contributors are more explained, so that's probably fine.

Highlights from the week include:

* **Heavy maintenance push** — pull requests and issues were reviewed, tested, and merged or closed across the grass, grass-addons, grass-website, and grass-tutorials repositories, including a batch of CodeQL-flagged fixes and a broader migration of module tests to pytest

> * **5 new contributors** joined and got up to speed quickly — including a very promising almost-15-year-old newcomer! Two of them are close to landing a full hyperspectral data processing chain in the *i.hyper* addon (EnMAP and EMIT data import, atmospheric correction, spectral resampling), while the others added test coverage to addons and helped get GRASS addons building on Windows in CI

Reviewer: Missing dot at the end of the paragraph.

<a href="/images/news/grass_community_meeting_20260717.webp">
  <img src="/images/news/grass_community_meeting_20260717.webp"
   alt="GRASS Community Meeting in San Michele all'Adige, 2026"
   title="GRASS Community Meeting in San Michele all'Adige, 2026"
   width="40%" style="float:left;padding-right:25px;padding-top:15px">
</a>

> * **Bugs found and fixed**, including two `v.proj` reprojection issues, an orphaned wxGUI drag-image bug on macOS, and a temporal framework metadata bug caught while reviewing this year's GSoC temporal framework project

Reviewer: I am aware of just one v.proj bug. But it may be better to be more vague here anyway.

> * **New addons**, with `t.rast.vi`, `r.surf.volcano`, `r.barplot`, `t.rast.aggregate.seasons`, and `t.rast.climatologies` merged during the week and `r.soils.rosetta` right behind it in review, plus new pytest-based test coverage merged for several existing addons (`r.clip`, `r.centroids`, `v.median`).

Reviewer: How about reordering those items - not starting with bugs, e.g., core, jupyter, bugs, website, addons, tutorials, PSC ?

Reviewer 2: You can add [r.out.3mf](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass-addons/pull/1801) to the list of new addons.

* **Tutorials refreshed** — grass-tutorials grew with a new visibility analysis (`r.viewshed`) tutorial, and a getting-started guide for conda, while existing tutorial categories were reduced and consolidated for easier browsing.
* **Website technology bump** — the frontend was migrated from Bootstrap 3 to Bootstrap 5 with Sass-Dart, the CI build and deployment pipeline was split into dedicated build/deploy jobs and now publishes from a CI-built release artifact, dependencies were pinned for supply-chain security, and the sitemap was fixed for better SEO. A new interactive **community map**, showing GRASS users and providers around the world, landed this week.
* **Core GRASS progress** — continued work on the CMake build system transition, a new Windows installer built with GitHub Actions (with the first successful CI compilation of addons on Windows!), markdown-based documentation and man page conversion, reduced Sphinx warnings, and SBOM (CycloneDX) and SPDX license-header work in the pipeline for better supply-chain transparency.

> * **Jupyter notebooks in the GUI** — after a long development cycle that started as an idea at the 2025 Dev Summit, the [GUI-Jupyter notebook integration](https://github.com/OSGeo/grass/blob/main/gui/wxpython/docs/wxGUI.jupyter.md) PR was merged this week, and will be shipped with the upcoming 8.6 release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Jupyter notebooks in the GUI** — after a long development cycle that started as an idea at the 2025 Dev Summit, the [GUI-Jupyter notebook integration](https://grass.osgeo.org/grass-devel/manuals/wxGUI.jupyter.html) PR was merged this week, and will be shipped with the upcoming 8.6 release.
```
